So we learned about the app manifest properties,
let's now add them to our manifest.json file, so that we can actually see it
in action. I will start with the name and since this is a JSON file, every property has to go between double
quotation marks,
so "name" is the first property I want to configure here,
the value also goes between double quotation marks.
I will name it Instagram as progressive web app since we kind of build an Instagram clone here, a
very simple version of that.
Now that's a rather long name, so let's also add the short underscore name property where I will simply
name this pwagram,
so basically the short version which will be displayed below the app icon for example. Speaking of
that, before I configure anything else about this application,
I want to add an icon so that we can see something.
So let's add the icons property, also between double quotation marks
and next let's add the value which is an array, not between double quotation marks. Here we specify multiple
objects with curly braces, also not between double quotation marks which configure the various icons we use.
Each icon consists of three properties at least, the first property is the source,
so basically pointing to the pathway to find this icon. Now if we expand source here, under images, you'll find
an icons folder which holds, well a lot
icons actually.
Now I'll come back to what these apple icons here do,
the app icons are the ones I want to use for now,
so let's start with the smallest one, the 48x48 icon. So the source simply is slash to refer to our
root folder which is public, since that is where our API is served from, then source,
so now we're inside this folder here.
Next you want to go into images, so let's add images here and let's add icons thereafter to access the
icons folder and then let's simply pick the icon we want to refer to, in this case app-icon-48x48.png,
so
this icon here. That's the path to the icon, we also need to give the browser a little bit more information,
for example the type, the type here is image/png.
Now this is the type we want to use,
we also need to give it information about the size because whilst it is encoded in the file name, we could
give this icon any file name,
so that is isn't enough for the browser,
instead let's add a sizes property here
and let's be very clear about the size. The size is always identified as an X by X ratios of 48x48 in
this case,
so always the width times the height.
So this is the information we need to give it about the first icon.
Of course there are more icons,
so let's add the next icon, 96x96.
I simply have to change the names here and the same should be true for you since you downloaded my project,
so you already have all these icons and we will do this all the way up to this app icon 512 to 512.
So I will quickly do this and exchange the number every time I add a new icon here,
so the next one for me is 144
and feel free to skip ahead to the end of this part here because it might not be that interesting since
you need to add all these icons, still want to give you a chance to follow along smoothly though.
So we're approaching the end here,
we're at 256
icon already,
now let's add two more,
the next one is the
348x348
icon here, excuse me 384
and finally the last icon I want to add is the 512x512
icon for very big devices.
These are all the icons added
and with that, the browser should be able to load our app correctly.
Now with that added, let's go after these square brackets, so often the icons array
and let's start adding more properties because besides the icon, we also can specify a start
URL, remember that is the property which defines which page should be loaded when we launch our
app from this home screen icon. Here
I want to load /index.html referring to the index.html file in our main directory.
Besides that, I also want to set up a scope, so which pages should be part of the progressive web app
and here I will specify a dot which basically means all the files in the public folder are part of my
progressive web app. Next I'll add display and display for me here is standalone,
however there are other options too,
you could also specify full screen which basically means that it will cover up the whole screen and
whilst standalone still would have a toolbar and basically behave like a standalone app,
fullscreen is like the fullscreen native apps you know where you don't see any controls at all.
Not typically the choice you take for web applications but you could do that.
You can also choose minimal UI,
this will also feel like a standalone application but with a reduced amount of UI elements and you can
also choose browser which will open it like a normal web page in the browser.
Now that's not very native application-like,
so I will use standalone which is the common choice you take here.
We can next also set the orientation of our application,
now orientation can be any or portrait or landscape. Now any obviously allows the user to switch whilst
portrait and landscape limit it to a certain orientation.
If you specify portrait primary, you also make sure that it doesn't switch if the user rotates the device
by 180 degrees which still is portrait
but obviously upside down.
Well not on your web app but the device.
So portrait primary makes sure that it only is portrait if the basically home button
is at the bottom of the device
and again, any and landscape are the alternatives.
Now I will set it to portrait primary for this app here,
however be aware that in other apps you might not want to limit this,
maybe you want to give the user the freedom to rotate it,
so definitely set this with care.
Again I will go with portrait primary here but depending on the app you're building, you might want to
set this to landscape or to any maybe. Now that's it for the orientation,
we also can change the colors,
I did mentioned this in the previous video. For example we have the background color here, the background
color allows us to define the color which is used in the background whilst our page is building up or
on the splash screen,
so this loading screen whilst the whole application is still loading. Here
I will choose #fff which is the hex code for white color because I want to have a white splash
screen with only our icon being placed in the middle of it.
The browser will do this automatically for us,
you will see it in one of the next lectures.
You can also set up a theme color here, the theme color defines the overall theme
for example used in the toolbar or in the tasks switcher and here, I picked a nice color which is basically
the color used by the CSS package I used for styling the application,
it's #3f51b5, that's this nice purple look you can see on our running web application,
this look here,
so the color of the toolbar. With the color set up,
you can also add a description
and again, this is a text which will be used by the browser whenever it needs to present a description
to the user.
So here a simple Instagram clone implementing a lot of PWA love, seems like a good description for
the application we're building here.
Now to conclude this, there are two other properties you learned about, dir to set the direction, could be
right to left,
now typically is probably left to right though which is the default
but here,
LTR then
but here you could specify a different direction to let the browser know about this.
And we also have lang, I'll set it to EN-US but you can use any four character color code or five characters
actually with the dash to specify what the default language of your application is.
And that's our own manifest.json file,
now let's see how we can test it and where this actually will work in the next lecture.